real estate is going to crash well at
least some would use that to get the
clicks but in today's video I'm going to
explain why that's not the case well it
depends where you look you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
you got to understand something when we
talk about real estate that's a big
subject of course we have all the people
that work inside the industry but that
could be anyone from a mortgage broker
to a construction worker we have to
understand that there are so many
Commodities involved there's commercial
real estate and there's residential real
estate there's also the debt that's
connected in with that which brings us
to the Federal Reserve all of that here
today let's begin I want to talk about
what's happening right now the number
one thing is a new white house plan to
create affordable housing convert empty
Office Buildings yes that's right this
is what they want to do and we've heard
this for many cities but there's a
problem you can't do this in in most
cases and some would say why what's
going on here I'm going to show you
actually today and I'll give you the
actual floor plan of what something like
this would look like understand that
this doesn't necessarily happen in most
cases we were talking about this um just
recently on the uh the financial Friday
live session I believe it was and I
think it's important to note that we got
to get serious about the data we can't
just say all right they're going to fix
it like this when we know that they're
not I could show you some details right
here and of course I want to take a look
at the data as well because the data is
going to tell the story as cities across
the US continue to struggle with
climbing office vacancies and
unaffordable rents the White House
released a new plan to help Property
Owners convert empty office into
apartment units now that would sound
like a good idea we need that but the
cost to do so is often just too
expensive and that's for the most part
not all cases but definitely for the
most part it's really not something that
is worth it and so they don't do it
that's why it hasn't happened up until
this point right here this has been an
issue for a while commercial real estate
being empty accelerated in 2020 but
there's just too much overall in certain
circumstances there's not enough single
family homes in many areas but then we
have way too much retail so there's a
grand disparity and we need that to be
fixed the Department of Transportation
will make these projects located near
public transit eligible for below Market
financing programs that account for
billions of dollars in loans and so the
government is going to reach out here
maybe perhaps part of this
infrastructure project that they want to
do where they'll spend trillions of
dollars is It ultimately going to make
the cost of the homes affordable is it
what do you think well in the examples I
have seen before what they ended up
converting these properties into were
Luxury Rentals now Luxury Rentals are
places people can live but that's not
going to resolve the issue and that's
really the point here now if the
government's willing to spend a lot of
money and create some sort of social
housing out of it I want to know who's
taking care of it I want to know who's
maintaining it and is there any you know
residual effect on that as well can they
keep up with it this is an expensive
thing to run right and so we've got that
detail now let me show you this ghost
towns federal office buildings are 80%
vacant according to the government audit
and that's a big issue because they're
saying we've got a problem here with
commercial real estate we're going to
help out everybody we're going to build
affordable housing and at the same time
their own buildings are empty now that's
the issue I have when they've got this
going on
80% vacant not 50 like you know The
General commercial real estate
80% there's something very wrong with
this number and I want to know what you
think should they just simply close up
shop and say that's enough or does
everybody need to come back to work and
many of The Office Buildings for
government that I have seen they might
be old in lot of these cases uh but and
often times they're just massive really
wasted space not efficient enough and
yet the stuff inside of there seems to
be old um so it's just it's not
efficient I'm not sure exactly how they
were built but here we are a lot of
wasted money a lot of wasted time and
the future in this circumstance here
doesn't look like it's going to be an
easy climb okay this is one that we're
going to be sweating for a while and
then when you tack on top of that the
data I'm about to show
you it's intense so this is commercial
this is government buildings we have
this looking at the data related to if
primarily we're going to look at a
residential okay so here it is monthly
existing house sales can you believe it
we're basically at the level we were at
during the financial and housing crisis
that to me is shocking now there's a
difference during that period of time
what did we experience prices came down
so then people started to say when then
they had extra cash they started to say
hm great opportunity I'm going to put my
money in but now there's something
different because the prices really
haven't come down maybe some areas
they've come off their Peak but that was
crazy to begin with what are we talking
about here we're looking at a time in
which mortgage rates in the United
States are
8% and that depends on your credit of
course it could be more than that and if
you're getting it from an 8 lender or
are you getting it from a b lender okay
all of that is going to impact it but
the prices are basically near record
high so it's a very different
environment from 2008 don't listen to
them oh there's going to be millions and
billions of homes suddenly flood in the
market right now we don't see that at
this time okay but we're told that over
and over and over again a hundred
different reasons why the prices of real
estate residential real estate are going
to collapse and then you're going to be
able to buy for pennies on the dollar it
might happen somewhat a little bit in
certain areas but overwhelmingly we
don't have that information going for us
now if I'll show you right here I think
this is really key okay so you can see
for yourself this is the the home price
over the home sales and we know that
there's conditions we just haven't seen
before all
right attacking on top of that take a
look at this it compares the red line
which is basically showing us the
interest rates right now mortgage rates
at 8% and then what's that other line
well that's the Mortgage Debt
outstanding the rate of interest on it
and so for the most part people have
their mortgage at
3.6% so the on average okay and a lot of
people a great number of them have it
even lower okay but even if we take that
average
3.6% then you have 8% today are anybody
is anybody going to be moving at this
time for 8% are they going to be
touching their mortgage at all no
they're locked in they're staying how
many homes are coming on online right
now no way it's enough right no way that
there's going to be this big flood that
that was there in in 20 uh you know
during that 2008 time frame some have
pointed to Airbnb but when we look at
the percentage of total homes that are
Airbnb there's just not enough some
areas way too much there's no question
um but as new properties come to the
market there are some buyers that have
lots of cash sitting just waiting maybe
they'll get a little bit of a deal or
it's going to be the black rocks and the
blackstones and all of the big you know
they're going for the single family
homes they might start buying it up now
if there's a big flood of course that's
a problem but we don't have that
evidence right now there's no reason why
we should say that unless we were
speculating unless we were just try
trying to create actual panic but that
is something that we need to understand
there's a big difference here and a lot
of people are just staying put now it
gets even worse if in fact interest
rates are cut so next year 2024 they
start cutting interest rates things are
going to get intense real intense now
let's talk about commercial because
what's happening with commercial will
tell us what we can experience overall
let me explain one of San Francisco's
biggest apartment buildings reportedly
loses half of its value
half
unbelievable understand that there's
debt connected with that America's
downtowns are empty fixing them will be
expensive lonely sidewalks and closed
storefronts Inspire proposals to recast
office districts into neighborhoods
where people live work and raise
families that's the solution that's what
they're saying
anyway understand that when they build
these big
towers these things let's say they're 50
stories and they employ lots of
different people maybe there are banks
in there insurance companies in there
lawyers all kinds of different things in
these big towers and so we have this
happening and it's working oh but then
2020 everything shuts down or you know
remote work makes it a little bit more
affordable so these companies start
doing that well then you have the knock
on effects you don't need the people
doing the office furniture you don't
have the food delivery the coffee
deliveries you don't have people going
out for lunch they're not buying stuff
when they're in that area you know the
drill and so what's happening is you got
debt that are on all these properties
you would think these are big companies
These Are banks these are Big
establishments that they're buying these
properties no it's all debt that debt
rolls
over at a like when you get a home in
the United States it would be 30 years
and it's the entire 30-year period per
we get that interest rate well that
doesn't work like that in commercial
real estate so you got to understand
that's the big key that connects
directly in with what the Federal
Reserve does because the FED is saying
we're going to go higher for
longer higher for longer that my friends
is the big deal and so I want to show
you this if we scroll down on this page
I know a lot of people might be
wondering what it would it look like
like well I want to show you that
transforming downtown so this is what if
you can see on the screen this is what
it looks like in a commercial building
okay so it's basically just like a wide
open floor plan and you know desks are
everywhere and so on when they would
convert that to a
residential you can see how it's
different and the one point is if you
have a bedroom that has to have a window
but these buildings are built in such a
way that there isn't windows on the
inside so you have to make them long and
narrow and of course if you want to have
a one bedroom a bedroom it has to be at
the end and so the whole design of it a
lot of times it doesn't work so you see
that right here you see what I'm
saying this is a big deal that means in
most cases you can't convert a lot of
these buildings into residential like
it's not a simple matter of who's going
to do it it physically doesn't work and
so that's the issue so you have
something number one that can't be
converted into residential for the most
part and you got way too much debt
associated with it ready to roll over at
a much higher interest rate that's where
our attention should be not the
residential real estate and the worries
over there and why people are really
focusing on that of course is because
they're playing into you and the you
know everybody is driven by greed or
fear and so they want to say here here
here's how we do that to get attention
but I'm here to bring you the truth this
is not a popular popularity contest let
me tell you and then we have places that
are severely overvalued there's no
question about that because people moved
in 2020 to these smaller towns drove up
the prices people got real upset in
these areas are saying I can never
afford it my kids cannot afford it now
because we got these people from this
other city that have moved in here and
brought those prices up so I think it
could be a a scenario where these cities
that really never should have gone up in
price those can come down they can come
down meaningfully have they done so yet
not really but that's where but not in
the big cities if the jobs are still
there I really don't see that okay now
if you want the knowledge the details
the financial education I've got it for
free for you the money gps.com I created
something called compass compasses for
you it's like 20 videos all super short
explains the financial system I want you
to check it out click that link in the
description totally free no email no pay
wall no nothing check it out okay we
have the comments of the Day Jedi says
we've got to keep rates higher for
longer well that's certainly what Jerome
Powell says and if they do that's going
to bring that inflation down to the
ground if they have The Bravery to do so
what do you think if you found this
video informative hit that thumbs up
when you do so it really helps the
channel out and you know we need that
today because we need the truth and I
hope that um you know I'm able to bring
that to you each and every day I'll see
you tomorrow take care